+++
abstract = "This thesis presents novel parallel algorithms to leverage the power of GPUs (Graphics Processing Units) for exact computations with polynomials having large integer coefficients. The significance of such computations, especially in real algebraic geometry, is hard to undermine. On massively-parallel architectures such as GPU, the degree of datalevel parallelism exposed by an algorithm is the main performance factor. We attain high efficiency through the use of structured matrix theory to assist the realization of relevant operations on polynomials on the graphics hardware. A detailed complexity analysis, assuming the PRAM model, also confirms that our approach achieves a substantially better parallel complexity in comparison to classical algorithms used for symbolic computations. Aside from the theoretical considerations, a large portion of this work is dedicated to the actual algorithm development and optimization techniques where we pay close attention to the specifics of the graphics hardware. As a byproduct of this work, we have developed high-throughput modular arithmetic which we expect to be useful for other GPU applications, in particular, open-key cryptography. We further discuss the algorithms for the solution of a system of polynomial equations, topology computation of algebraic curves and curve visualization which can profit to the full extent from the GPU acceleration. Extensive benchmarking on a real data demonstrates the superiority of our algorithms over several state-of-the-art approaches available to date. This thesis is written in English."

authors = ["Pavel Emeliyanenko"]
date = "2012-11-01"
image_preview = ""
math = true
publication_types = ["0"]
publication = "PhD thesis"
publication_short = ""
selected = true
title = "Harnessing the power of GPUs for problems in real algebraic geometry"
#url_code = "https://github.com/CGAL/cgal/tree/c68cf8fc4c850f8cd84c6900faa781286a7117ed/Arrangement_on_surface_2/include/CGAL/Curved_kernel_via_analysis_2/gfx"
url_dataset = ""
url_pdf = "pdf/phd_thesis_2012.pdf"
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""

[[url_custom]]
name = "University's library"
url = "https://publikationen.sulb.uni-saarland.de/handle/20.500.11880/26460"

# Optional featured image (relative to `static/img/` folder).
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
